Facebook selfie showing murder weapon helps convict killer

A Canadian woman has been convicted of killing her friend after police discovered the murder weapon used in a picture of the pair on social media.

Cheyenne Rose Antoine, 21, pleaded guilty on Monday to killing Brittney Gargol, 18, in Canada two years ago.

Ms Gargol was found strangled to death near a landfill in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan with Antoine's belt near her body.

Antoine was sentenced to seven years for manslaughter.

She was identified as a suspect after she posted a selfie on Facebook of the two of them, showing her wearing the belt hours before Ms Gargol died.

Antoine, who was initially charged with second-degree murder, showed up at another friend's house hysterical the night of the murder and confessed to hitting Ms Gargol and strangling her, CBC reported from court.

She said they had got drunk and into a heated argument.

Why I failed to catch Canada's worst serial killer
The heir whose killings stunned Canada
As part of her plea, Antoine accepted responsibility for Ms Gargol's death but said she does not remember killing her.

"I will never forgive myself. Nothing I say or do will ever bring her back. I am very, very sorry... It shouldn't have ever happened," she said in a statement through her lawyer.

Before Antoine was sentenced, Ms Gargol's aunt gave a victim impact statement to the court.

"Most days we can't stop thinking about Brittney what happened that night, what she must have felt fighting for her life," Jennifer Gargol said.

Five-year-old cancer survivor killed by runaway car

A Canadian school community is mourning a five-year-old cancer survivor who died after being hit by a runaway SUV.

Camila De Almeida Torcato and her father were leaving her Toronto school on Monday afternoon when the empty vehicle rolled towards them.

They were both pinned against another vehicle. The kindergarten student died in hospital from serious injuries. Her father was also injured.

Police are investigating how the driverless Hyundai SUV rolled away.

"She was a very special girl, she had problems before, she had cancer, but she was a fighter," her father told the Toronto Star on Tuesday.

"She was a very sweet girl, shy, but very sweet; my mind is filled with her memories."

The girl only began attending the St Raphael Catholic School in September, according to Canadian media reports.

In a statement, the Toronto Catholic District School Board said Camila's "tragic loss is one that is felt by all of us".

The school board said grief counsellors and psychologists are available to all its students in the wake of the death.

"Our hearts go out to the family and friends of this young student," the board said.

South Korea says it will continue high-level talks with North Korea with "clear eyes" amid global warnings that Pyongyang might be playing for time to continue its nuclear-arms programme.

"We have to make the most" of the opportunity, South Korean Foreign Minister Kang Kyung-wha told the BBC.

The two Koreas earlier agreed to march under a "unified Korea" flag at next month's Winter Olympics in the South.

The talks come as the US and its allies vowed to keep pressure on the North.

On Wednesday US Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said sanctions were "really starting to hurt", expressing confidence that the pressure would eventually force the North to the negotiating table over its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes.

Last year, US President Donald Trump said that America would destroy North Korea if forced to defend itself or its allies.

Also on Wednesday, Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono said the world should not be blinded by Pyongyang's recent "charm offensive".

"It is not the time to ease pressure or to reward North Korea," Mr Kono said, Reuters news agency reported. "The fact that North Korea is engaging in dialogue could be interpreted as proof that the sanctions are working."

North Korea crisis in 300 words
What is Seoul's negotiating stance?
Ms Kang told the BBC: "I think we understand North Korea better than anybody, having dealt with North Korea for decades, having had series of discussions off and on.

"We haven't had any significant engagement in the recent past - but this is an opportunity.

Head of the North Korean delegation Jon Jong-su, vice chairman of the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Country (CPRC) of the DPRK, crosses the concrete border to attend his meeting with Southern counterparts at the truce village of Panmunjom in the demilitarised zone separating the two Koreas, South Korea, 17 January 2018Image copyrightREUTERS
Image caption
North and South met for the first high-level talks in two years - against a backdrop of mounting military tension
"You can have all kinds of theories of why there are here (at the talks). There are, obviously, calculations going on the part of the North Korea decision-makers as to their actions.

"But in the end we have to make the most of it.

Ms Kang also said South Korea and its allies were "very much on the same page" regarding the longer term - the denuclearisation of the Korean peninsula.

And the foreign minister said Seoul wanted more humanitarian aid to be sent to North Korea as sanctions were beginning to take effect.

North Korea crisis: South to continue talks with 'clear eyes'

What has been agreed about the Olympics?
If the plans are realised, a hundreds-strong North Korean delegation - including 230 cheerleaders, 140 orchestral musicians and 30 taekwondo athletes - could attend the Winter Olympics.

South Korean supporters wave "reunification" flags for the North Korean football team during a match between South and North Korea at the East Asian Football Championship in Jeonju, Seoul, 4 August 2005Image copyrightAFP
Image caption
The "reunited" flag symbolises aspirations in both the North and South to end the nearly seven decades of division
It will mean the opening of the cross-border road for the first time in almost two years.

The two countries have also agreed to field a joint team for the sport of women's ice hockey. It would be the first time athletes from both Koreas have competed together.

The Games will take place in February in Pyeongchang.

The North has also agreed to send a smaller, 150-member delegation to the Paralympics in March.

The agreement will have to be approved by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) meeting on Saturday, because North Korea has missed registration deadlines or failed to qualify.

South Korea will also need to find ways to host the North Korean delegation without violating UN Security Council sanctions outlawing cash transfers to Pyongyang and blacklisting certain senior North officials.

Winter Olympics: How good is North Korea at sport?
North Korea: A sporting history of bombs and diplomacy
North Korea's cheerleading charm offensive
What has the reaction been in South Korea?
South Korea's hockey coach and conservative newspapers have expressed concern about the prospect of a united hockey team, saying it could damage South Korea's chances of winning a medal.

Tens of thousands of people are said to have signed online petitions urging President Moon Jae-in to scrap the plan.

But the liberal leader told South Korean Olympic athletes on Wednesday that the North's participation in the Games would help improve inter-Korean relations.

How did the deal come about?
The talks came after tensions on the Korean peninsula reached their highest point in decades.

This is because North Korea has made rapid advances in its nuclear and conventional weapons programmes in recent years.

Its latest ballistic missile test, in November, sparked a series of fresh sanctions from the UN targeting petrol shipments and travel.

Soon afterwards North Korean leader Kim Jong-un said he was "open to dialogue". In a New Year speech, he said he was considering sending a team to the Winter Olympics.

The breakthrough announcement that the North would be sending a delegation came on 9 January.

It was also agreed that a military hotline between the nations, suspended for nearly two years, would be reinstated.



Apple to pay $38bn on foreign cash pile

Apple will pay about $38bn (¡Ì27.3bn) in tax on the roughly $250bn cash pile it holds outside the US following recent changes to American tax rules.

The sum is expected to be the biggest payment under the reforms, which slash the US corporate tax rate.

The tech giant also plans to build a new campus and create 20,000 new jobs in the US.

Apple said its plans would contribute more than $350bn to the US economy over the next five years.

The company has not said how much of its cash abroad would be brought back to the US.

Chief executive Tim Cook said Apple is "focusing our investments in areas where we can have a direct impact on job creation".

Apple employs about 84,000 people in the US and expects to spend $55bn with domestic suppliers and manufacturers this year.

Paradise Papers: Apple's secret tax bolthole revealed
Apple investors urge action on 'smartphone addiction'
The company has data centres in seven states. On Wednesday, it broke ground on an expansion of its operations in Reno, Nevada.

It plans to spend more than $10bn on data centres over five years, as part of a $30bn capital spending plan for the US.

The location of Apple's new campus, which will house technical support staff, will be announced later in 2018.

Apple had earlier said it planned $16bn in capital expenditures in 2018, up from about $15bn in the prior year.

Tax changes
Apple is the latest company to promote plans to invest in America following the overhaul of the US tax code.

The changes cut the corporate rate from 35% to 21%. They also stopped applying the corporate rate to profits that companies make overseas, in exchange for a one-off tax payment.

President Donald Trump had argued the cuts would make the US more competitive and spur domestic companies to invest at home.

House Speaker Paul Ryan, a Republican congressman who spearheaded the tax overhaul, celebrated Apple's plans to invest in a post on Twitter.

 Twitter post by @SpeakerRyan: This is great news for the American economy and for America¡¯s workers. Image Copyright @SpeakerRyan@SPEAKERRYAN
Report
"This is great news for the American economy and for America's workers," he said.

Opponents to the new tax law predicted much of the money firms saved from the cuts would go to share buybacks and higher dividends.

CFRA Research analyst Angelo Zino said on Wednesday he expects Apple could repurchase as much as 10% of its shares over the next 12 to 18 months.

The company has spent $166bn already to repurchase shares under a plan to return $300bn to shareholders by March 2019.

Apple has previously called for simplification of US tax rules, amid criticism of its large overseas cash holdings and investigation by US tax authorities.

The company's announcement of its planned investments comes as tech firms face questions from competition regulators, as well as calls to make devices less addictive.

Apple is also facing legal action over its deliberate slowing of older iPhones.

The firm reported nearly $230bn in sales and more than $48bn in profit for the 12 months ended 30 September.

India rape and murder: Suspect in Haryana case found dead

Indian police say they have found the body of a teenage boy who was the main suspect in a rape and murder case in the northern state of Haryana.

A manhunt was launched after the girl's parents alleged he abducted her.

A senior police official told the BBC that the boy's body also had injuries, though he gave no further details.

The extent of the 15-year-old victim's injuries led many to draw comparisons with the 2012 gang rape and murder of a Delhi physiotherapy student.

Police had detained the boy's parents for questioning following the discovery of the girl's body on Saturday, but both of them have now been released, the official told local journalist Manoj Dhaka.

Although it is unclear when the boy died, the PTI news agency said that the body had been in a "severely decomposed" state.

Was Delhi gang rape India's #Metoo moment?
India outrage over brutal rape and murder of six-year-old
India gang rape: Four arrested for attack on teenage girl
The case sparked outrage when details of the girl's injuries became public.

Police had earlier said they believed the attack had been carried out by more than one person.

The incident, which was followed by the discovery of the body of another raped Dalit girl in another part of the state, has triggered protests against Haryana's Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.

Scrutiny of sexual violence has grown in India since the 2012 gang rape and murder of the 23-year-old student on a bus in the capital.

The crime sparked days of protests and forced the government to introduce tougher anti-rape laws, including the death penalty.

However, sexual attacks against women and children continue to be reported across the country.

Trump's medical sparks online 'girther' movement

US presidents regularly undergo physical examinations. It is not remarkable. However, the results of Donald Trump's recent medical check-up have sparked an online conspiracy theory - the girther movement.

According to the official medical report, released by the White House on 16 January, President Trump stands at 75 inches (6ft 3in; 1.9m) and weighs 239lb (17st 1lb; 108kg).

But the girther movement, propelled mainly by critics of the president, posits that Mr Trump is shorter and heavier than the report suggests.

This particular presidential physical has received increased interest after questions were raised over Mr Trump's mental health and supposed unhealthy diet.

Presentational grey line
You may also like:
Seven-year-old delivery boy causes outrage in China
KFC jibe at McDonald's with Trump parody tweet
Trump Bannon row: 'Not the Steve Bannon you are looking for'
There have been more than 56,000 tweets about the girther movement since late on 16 January, with one of the first tweets to use the term posted by political commentator Chris Hayes.

Skip Twitter post by @chrislhayes
 
Chris Hayes
?
@chrislhayes
Has anyone coined "girther" for those who belive the president weighs more than his doctor reports?

6:33 AM - Jan 17, 2018
 4,824 4,824 Replies   27,459 27,459 Retweets   120,922 120,922 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @chrislhayes
One of the most popular girther tweets claims to show a photograph of Mr Trump's driving licence listing the president as 6ft 2in (74in; 1.88m), an inch shorter than reported by the White House physician.

An image of his driving licence appeared in a 2016 article on news website Politico.

Skip Twitter post by @GershKuntzman
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter
 
Gersh Kuntzman
?
@GershKuntzman
For the record, @realDonaldTrump said he was 74 inches in 2012. Now his doctor says he's 75 inches. And that one inch makes is BMI "overweight" not "obese." I'm a #girther because old men don't GROW an inch!

6:45 AM - Jan 17, 2018
 752 752 Replies   4,052 4,052 Retweets   10,241 10,241 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @GershKuntzman
A number of social media users posted photos of Mr Trump standing next to well-known figures in a bid to compare their heights.

Skip Twitter post by @ceomuscle
View image on Twitter
View image on Twitter
 
Bill Jack
@ceomuscle
Trump 6¡¯3¡±
Obama 6¡¯1¡±
?? #Girther #AlternativeFacts

12:12 PM - Jan 17, 2018
 40 40 Replies   434 434 Retweets   797 797 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @ceomuscle
Others have been sharing photographs of professional athletes with a similar height and weight to the president, pointing out the disparity in their appearance.

However, many have highlighted that muscle is heavier than fat, which may make comparisons unfair.

Skip Twitter post by @GreenJennyJones
 
Jenny Jones
?
@GreenJennyJones
I'm loving this #girther debate. To be fair to #Trump (not something I would usually say), muscle weighs more than fat, so we can't compare him to an athlete. However, by any measure, Trump is obese. https://twitter.com/AynRandPaulRyan/status/953422600826372096 ¡¦

7:57 PM - Jan 17, 2018
 11 11 Replies   6 6 Retweets   12 12 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @GreenJennyJones
Others online have questioned the independence of the doctor overseeing the medical examination. Dr Ronny L Jackson is the current Physician to the President and oversaw two of former President Obama's medical examinations.

Dr Jackson said in a press conference that Mr Trump has "incredible genes" and if he had a healthier diet over past 20 years "he might live to be 200".

Guardians of the Galaxy director James Gunn used the #girther hashtag to offer to donate $100,000 (¡Ì72,470) to charity if the president agreed to be re-weighed by a different doctor.

Skip Twitter post by @JamesGunn
 
James Gunn
?
@JamesGunn
I will give 100 thousand dollars to Trump's favorite charity if he will step on an accurate scale with an impartial medical professional, okayed by both of us. For real. #Girther #GirtherMovement

10:05 AM - Jan 17, 2018
 2,495 2,495 Replies   5,921 5,921 Retweets   19,220 19,220 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @JamesGunn
While much of the discussion online was sceptical of the claims made in the president's medical report, some defended Mr Trump and slammed the girther movement.

Referring to previous calls for the president to release his tax returns, one twitter user questioned if Mr Trump's critics would ever be satisfied with the evidence produced by the current administration.

Skip Twitter post by @TheJakeEngle
 
Jake
@TheJakeEngle
The way the left responds to Trump's weight just makes me think that if he DID release his tax returns, the left would call it fake anyway. And I'm no Trump fan. #Girther

4:37 PM - Jan 17, 2018
 5 5 Replies   Retweets   2 2 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @TheJakeEngle
Some suggested the girther movement was hypocritical for fat-shaming the president.

Skip Twitter post by @Sizzzweee
 
Sizwe Khumalo
@Sizzzweee
#Girther all the tolerant liberals fat shaming president again...

7:52 PM - Jan 17, 2018
 12 12 Replies   Retweets   1 1 like
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @Sizzzweee
And former director of the US Office of Government Ethics, Walter Shaub Jr, asked whether people should be making jibes about President Trump's physical attributes.

Skip Twitter post by @waltshaub
 
Walter Shaub
?
@waltshaub
Twitter is the sort of place where people who condemn Trump's wisecracks about physical attributes make wisecracks about his physical attributes.

10:10 AM - Jan 17, 2018
 355 355 Replies   277 277 Retweets   2,197 2,197 likes
Twitter Ads info and privacy
Report
End of Twitter post by @waltshaub
The term girther is an apparent nod to the well-established "birther' movement", made up mainly of right-wing activists who opposed President Obama, with Mr Trump as its most public face.

Birthers questioned the former president's place of birth and his eligibility to hold high office.

It has been widely derided as a racist conspiracy.

The birther theory was pushed hard by Mr Trump, and resulted in Mr Obama releasing his birth certificate to the public in 2011.

Australia Day: Poll examines attitudes to controversial date

Less than half of Australians know the historical origin of the country's national day, according to a poll.

Australia Day, on 26 January, has been the subject of debate in recent times over concerns it is offensive to indigenous Australians.

The day commemorates the arrival of British settlers in 1788, an event some indigenous people call "invasion day".

A survey conducted by the Australia Institute, a think tank, has shed light on national attitudes to the day.

The poll of 1,417 Australians, described as nationally representative, showed:

Only 38% of respondents could identify the day's historical origin from a list of 11 options;
Just over half said they did not care when the celebration was held;
37% said they agreed the date was offensive to indigenous Australians, compared with 46% who disagreed, and a remainder who were unsure.
"This polling shows that while Australia Day is important to most Australians, most people are laid back about the date we celebrate on," said Ebony Bennett, the institute's deputy director.

Last year, controversy over the day saw protests held around the country.

The government has repeatedly said the date should not be changed, and that a majority of Australians support it.

Council drops 'exclusionary' Australia Day
Music count reignites Australia Day debate
"An attack on Australia Day is a repudiation of the values the day celebrates: freedom, a fair go, mateship and diversity," Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said last year.

The left-wing Greens party reignited discussion this week by launching a campaign to change the date.

The government has criticised local councils in recent times for moving celebrations from 26 January.

UK weather: 'Do not travel' warning issued for drivers

Drivers in Scotland and northern England have been urged not to travel, as snow storms hit parts of the UK for a third day.

Police Scotland say travel conditions across much of the country are "extremely dangerous", following heavy snow.

A Met Office amber warning, meaning "be prepared", was lifted at 05:00 GMT.

It is believed to be the first time the "do not travel" warning has been issued since the high winds of January 2013.

The Met Office also has a yellow warning for very strong winds - including gusts of 65 -75mph - in place for much of England and Wales until 09:00 GMT.

Yellow warnings for snow and ice remain in place for parts of Scotland, Northern Ireland and northern England.

'Delaying travel'
Police Scotland are advising drivers not to use roads in Dumfries and Galloway, East Lothian, Edinburgh, Midlothian, West Lothian, Scottish Borders, East Ayrshire, South Ayrshire, Renfrewshire, South Lanarkshire and North Lanarkshire.

A force statement said: "If you do travel, you will experience delays of several hours or more.

"Congestion caused by vehicles may restrict emergency, recovery or winter maintenance vehicles from providing essential assistance or clearing roads.

Your photos of snow from around Scotland
Runaway lorry slides down icy street
How cold is it where you are?
"Drivers of HGVs should drive with extreme caution and be aware that you may be requested to park at a suitable position by the police.

"No-one should ever place themselves at risk on the road and it may be worth considering making alternative arrangements such as delaying travel until conditions improve or using public transport."

Transport Scotland urged drivers to avoid a repeat of Tuesday night when many were stuck for up to 11 hours on the M74 in South Lanarkshire and Dumfries and Galloway.

cars in edinburghImage copyrightPA
Image caption
Drivers across parts of the country are facing another day of travel disruption
Satellite image of snow across the UKImage copyrightNEODAAS/UNIVERSITY OF DUNDEE
Image caption
A satellite image from Wednesday afternoon showed half the UK under snow and cloud
Scottish Borders Council said no schools would open in its area on Thursday, with 15,000 pupils missing lessons.

A total of 26 schools were also shut in Dumfries and Galloway on Wednesday, affecting 4,000 students.

In the Highland Council area, nearly 150 schools and nurseries were shut or partially closed, affecting 15,000 pupils.

Nearly 30 schools and nurseries were closed in South Lanarkshire and there are also a number of schools shut in East Ayrshire, Stirling, Falkirk and Perth and Kinross.

Scotland's Transport Minister Humza Yousaf has said the authorities would be "tested to our limit".

Presentational grey line
A guide to travel warnings
Road snowImage copyrightPOLICE SCOTLAND
Travel conditions are graded at four levels by police and transport officials depending on the severity of the weather.

Level 1: Normal operations - no severe weather.
Level 2: Travel with caution - police advise people that conditions for road travel may be hazardous.
Level 3: High risk of disruption for road journeys - police advise that there is a high risk of disruption for road journeys. Travellers are likely to experience significant delays.
Level 4: Avoid travelling on the roads - journeys should be avoided. Severe delays expected.

Trump tracker: The story of his first year - in six graphics

Donald Trump came into office promising to change the face of American politics and transfer power "back to the people". So what has he achieved so far, at the 12-month mark?

We're tracking the president's progress on his agenda and how it is received by the American public.

And there are interesting - and surprising - comparisons with some of his predecessors.

Short presentational grey line
How are his approval ratings?
Donald Trump is one of the most unpopular presidents in the modern era. His weekly approval rating is languishing at 39% after 12 months in office, according to Gallup.

Presidents Barack Obama (50%), Bill Clinton (54%) and George W Bush (83%) were way higher at this point.

His average over the year is also 39%, which is the lowest recorded of any elected president in his first term. Clinton had the previous lowest at 49%.

Even Gerald Ford was in the high 40s after 12 months in office, according to Gallup, following his politically radioactive pardon of predecessor Richard Nixon for the Watergate scandal.

Graphic: Trump's first year weekly approval rating compared with his three immediate predecessors
When Mr Trump assumed office on 20 January he had the lowest approval rating of any incoming president. He won the election with anaemic numbers, so it's unsurprising they're still poor.

What may alarm the White House is some opinion polls indicate support is slipping for Mr Trump among his core voters, including white men without a college degree and rural Americans.

If his ratings continue to feel gravity's pull, expect anxious conversations in the Republican ranks as Congress gears up for the November 2018 mid-terms.

Short presentational grey line
Has Trump moved to cut illegal immigration?
Building a border wall paid for by Mexico was President Trump's signature issue during the election campaign but it is no nearer to happening.

There are prototypes built but the Democrats have refused to approve a penny towards it and Mexico's leaders say they will never pay.

Six things that could topple Trump's border wall
President Trump continues to press Congress to change US immigration laws, including ending the visa lottery system and "chain migration" that gives priority to relatives of existing legal US residents.

In the meantime, he has signed two executive memos that instruct immigration officers to take a much tougher approach towards enforcing existing measures.

In October, the Trump administration announced it was ending the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (Daca) programme, which granted normalised residency status to roughly 700,000 undocumented immigrants who entered the US when they were young.

The White House and Congress have attempted to negotiate a means to enact legislation providing similar protections, but no final agreement has been reached.

Graphic: Apprehensions on the US-Mexico border
Immigration enforcement - and President Trump's tough rhetoric - may have led to a drop in the number of people trying to cross illegally into the US in the early months of the new administration, but the numbers rebounded toward the end of 2017.

The new president's talk of a crackdown on illegal immigrants makes it sound as if they had an easy ride under President Obama, but he was labelled deporter-in-chief for a reason.

Between 2009-15, the Obama administration deported more than 2.5 million people - most of whom had been convicted of some form of criminal offence or were recent arrivals.

But an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants still live in the US, many from Mexico.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has launched a series of raids across the country since Mr Trump was elected - a change from the Obama administration's focus on areas along the US border - leading to a 40% monthly increase over the latter part of the previous administration.

That hasn't led to more deportations yet, however. Instead, there is now a backlog of more than 600,000 cases awaiting final review by immigration judges.

Short presentational grey line
How is the economy faring under Trump?
During the campaign, Mr Trump vowed to create 25 million jobs over 10 years and become "the greatest jobs president... ever".

He used to claim the actual unemployment rate was more than 40%. Now he's America's CEO, he's embracing the same jobless figures he once dismissed as "phony".

The basic trajectory of the economy under President Trump remains the same as it was under President Obama.

The jobless rate hit a 17-year low of 4.1% in October and has remained there, putting the labour market at or close to so-called full employment after 81 consecutive months of growth.

Graphic: jobs
Stock markets have hit record highs, oil prices remain low, consumer and small-business confidence is buoyant, and inflation is under control.

Retail sales has begun to pick up, although auto sales declined in 2017. Wage growth remains sluggish.

The White House has set a growth target of 3%, which the US surpassed in the second and third quarters of 2017, marking 42 straight months of economic expansion.

And Republicans hope that their tax cuts will help boost growth, although experts argue about whether history provides evidence that one follows the other.

Graphic: Stock market boom
Latest news on the US economy

Short presentational grey line
What bills has Trump signed into law or passed on his own?
"We have signed more legislation than anybody. We broke the record of Harry Truman," Mr Trump said in late December.

The president has signed off 107 bills during his first year in office, trailing his three most recent predecessors in totals, according to the nonpartisan website GovTrack, which tracks bills in US Congress.

Graphic: Bills signed by Congress during first year in office
Mr Trump falls behind George W Bush (118) and Barack Obama (124), but he did manage to pass the most sweeping overhaul of the US tax system in more than three decades before the year's end.

The president has also claimed he has passed more legislation than any president since Harry Truman, which was only correct during his first 100 days in office. He has since fallen behind previous administrations, GovTrack found.

More than 30 pieces of legislation signed into law by the president appear to be modifications or extensions to existing law, an analysis by National Public Radio shows.

A dozen bills focused on honouring people or organisations, including renaming a building in Nashville and appointing individuals to a museum board, the analysis found.

The president also exercises political power through unilateral executive orders and memoranda, which allow him to bypass the legislative process in Congress in certain policy areas.

We have signed more legislation than anybody. We broke the record of Harry Truman.
President Trump, 27 December
He wasted little time in using this tool, moving to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal, cut business regulations and push ahead with the construction of two controversial pipelines.

But executive orders are limited in their power, because they cannot assign those agencies new funds or introduce new laws. Both of those powers are held by Congress.

Short presentational grey line
One thing that didn't go well - healthcare
Healthcare was always going to be an early test for President Trump after he made it a centrepiece of his election campaign.

President Obama's Affordable Care Act helped more than 20 million previously uninsured Americans to finally get health cover, but it has suffered from rising premiums and Mr Trump said he would "immediately repeal and replace" it.

The House Republican bill eventually passed despite a damning assessment from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), a nonpartisan federal agency, which said it would result in 24 million more uninsured Americans by 2026.

But the Senate failed to bring its own controversial version to a vote, citing a lack of support. It marked an embarrassing episode for President Trump and the Republican Party, which controls the presidency and both chambers of Congress for the first time in 11 years.

Graphic: Projection of people without healthcare cover under Republican plan
But Mr Trump has moved to upend his predecessor's signature law in other ways. He suspended payments to insurance companies that help them offset the cost of insuring poorer, sicker Americans.

The administration also cut funding to encourage Americans to sign up on the government-run health exchanges while Congressional Republicans stuck a provision in the tax bill that removed the individual mandate, the requirement that all Americans buy health insurance or face a fine. Many viewed the mandate as the key to ensuring the law could work.

Repealing the mandate could prompt healthier Americans to skip insurance, driving up premiums for sicker customers.

The CBO estimates the number of uninsured Americans could increase by 13 million by 2027 while premiums on the individual market could rise 10% a year over the next decade. But until the mandate is official removed in January 2019, it remains unclear whether it will roil the insurance markets.

Tony Abbott head-butt: Attacker pleads guilty in court

A man has pleaded guilty to head-butting former Australian prime minister Tony Abbott.

Astro Labe, 38, admitted on Thursday to a charge of causing harm to a Commonwealth public official. The incident happened in September.

At the time Mr Abbott blamed the head-butt on his opposition to same-sex marriage, a claim later denied by Labe.

The Hobart man, a self-proclaimed anarchist, said he had been motivated by "personal hatred" for Mr Abbott.

He faces a maximum penalty of two years' jail and a A$25,000 (¡Ì14,000; $19,000) fine.

'Liverpool kiss'
A court heard Labe had been drinking at a bar when he saw Mr Abbott enter a newspaper office in Hobart.

When Mr Abbott came out, Labe followed him for 250m (800ft) before deliberately assaulting him, the Australian Broadcasting Corp reported.

Mr Abbott said he had offered a handshake to Labe before being pulled in for a "Liverpool kiss", for which he suffered a swollen lip.

On Thursday, a magistrate questioned whether Labe had acted "spontaneously", as claimed by his lawyer, because he had joked about head-butting Mr Abbott earlier in the day.

The incident took place during a two-month national vote on same-sex marriage, which was later legalised.

Australia approves same-sex marriage
Australia's ex-PM 'trolled' by lesbian sister
Labe had been wearing a "vote yes" sticker, prompting Mr Abbott to suggest the head-butt was an example of the debate turning nasty.

But Labe said his actions had "nothing to do" with same-sex marriage.

He will be sentenced in March.